# GameOf20Sticks
Implement Graphical User Interface using MATLAB to layout gameplay options for user and computer

Manual:

The object of this game is to not be the player that removes the last stick. In the Level C Deliverable and Level B Deliverable, the player must play against another player, whereas in the Level A Deliverable, the player must play against the computer. The C-Level Deliverable code begins by assigning the variable, “c”, representing the count of remaining sticks, a value of 20, as that is the starting value. Then, the remaining code is within the while loop, “while c>0”, to ensure that the game does not allow there to be a negative number of sticks in the pile. This while loop indicates when the number of sticks in the pile reaches zero, which indicates when the game will end. In the command window, the game will first ask Player 1 to enter the number of sticks they would like to remove. To ensure that this number is a non-decimal number between 1 and 3, or in other words, either 1,2, or 3, we include the code, 
“while p1~=1 && p1~=2 && p1~=3 || (c-p1)<0 
        disp('Invalid input');
        p1=input('Please choose between 1, 2, or 3 sticks ');”.
The variable p1 represents the number of sticks player 1 is removing. If player one removes a number of sticks other than 1, 2, or 3, “Invalid input” will be displayed in the command window and the user will be asked to choose the number of sticks they’d like to remove again and again until the input is either 1, 2 or 3. Then, the value of “p1” is subtracted from the count of “c” to create a new count value (“c = c-p1”). To account for the special circumstances in which the remaining number of sticks in the pile is 2 and the user cannot pick 3 sticks out, or when the number of sticks in the pile is 1 and the player must only 1 stick, we needed to include if statements in our code. For example,
“if c==1
        while p1 ~=1
        disp('Invalid input');
        p1 = input('Please choose the last stick to remove. You lose the game. ');
        end”
This means that if there is only one stick remaining in the pile, the text “You must remove the last stick. You lose the game” will appear in the command window. If the user still does not enter 1 as the number of sticks they would like to remove, “Invalid Input” will be displayed in the command window, and the player will be asked to choose again. In any situation in the game when the player is asked to choose the number of sticks they’d like to remove again, the count value or the number of sticks in the pile remains unchanged. The number of sticks in the pile only changes when the user gives an accepted input value. All of the code for player 1 is duplicated for player 2, so in the command window, it will say whether or not it is Player 1 or Player 2’s turn to remove sticks. The game ends when the count reaches zero. If the count reaches zero after Player 1’s turn, “Player 2 Wins” will be displayed in the command window and the game will end. If the count reaches zero after Player 2’s turn, “Player 1 Wins” will be displayed in the command window and the game will end. 
The B-Level Deliverable intends for the game to be played on a GUI rather than a command window. In order to play the game on the GUI, all the players have to do is press the button for the number of sticks they would like to remove when it is their turn. They will know when it is their turn because there is a push button that alternates between displaying “Player 1’s Turn” and “Player 2’s Turn” between every turn. To indicate the number of sticks being removed, the GUI has three push buttons for 1 stick, 2 sticks, and 3 sticks, respectively. The number of sticks removed from the count corresponds to the button that is pressed. To account for the fact that the count value is constantly changing throughout the game, it must be assigned as a global variable in the beginning of the code. Another global variable in our code is the variable “A”. We utilize this variable to determine when it is Player 1’s Turn and when it is Player 2’s Turn. Whenever any of the buttons representing 1, 2 or 3 sticks is pressed, the value of “A” is increased by 1.  The text button will display which player’s turn it is depending on if the value of “A” is odd or even. The winner is determined based on what the value of “A” is when the count value reaches zero. The winner is displayed in static text on a panel on the GUI. 
In the B-Level Deliverable, the player only had the option to play against another player. Now, in the A-Level Deliverable, the player also has the option to play against the computer. Just like in the B-Level Deliverable, there is still a counter that will tell you who has won at the end of the game. The A-Level Deliverable code starts by opening up the SticksPrMainMenu which is simply the main menu where you now have the options to play against another person, or the CPU through two push buttons. After selecting whom you wish to go against, a second GUI will pop up corresponding to the button pressed (SticksPrA for Player v Player or StickPrCPU for Player v Computer). If you ever choose to switch game modes, there is a main menu option where you may go back and select the other game type. However, with playing against the computer, you will follow the same rules of the game but the computer will select between 1 and 3 sticks. A statictext box will inform you on the computer’s selection and will carry out a strategy to win. The person/thing to pick up the last stick loses. 


List of External Sources Used:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qAGiAq6HhYQ 
This source was helpful in getting us acquainted with the syntax of the GUI’s, and it taught us the syntax to convert string inputs to numerical inputs.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QRWrFRA2TK8
This source was helpful in giving us a basic idea of how to generate random numbers in Matlab. This was needed for the A-Level Deliverable.
